Joan Kandel: Hello.
Joan Kandel: Good morning, I can barely hear you. You're pretty faint.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Let's see here. I can kind of hear you. How about your video.
Mr. Baca: And I'm not sure this is my first time doing it. No, no.
Joan Kandel: Did you call that. There you go.
Mr. Baca: There you are. Okay.
Joan Kandel: All right, you did. Now you're a pro.
Hey,
Joan Kandel: So, so you're Gary Right.
Joan Kandel: Away, otherwise known as Mr baka
Joan Kandel: Okay. That's what it says on your thing.
Joan Kandel: Say that bucket. That sounds so formal. Well, I'm Dr. Can del
Mr. Baca: Coronado are you today.
Joan Kandel: I'm good. It's nice to meet you.
Joan Kandel: Welcome you
Thank you.
Joan Kandel: So you're in Arizona.
Joan Kandel: Yes. Okay, well, where are you in Arizona.
Mr. Baca: And it is like an outskirts and Phoenix. It's called that Queen Creek, like the cocaine.
Joan Kandel: Yes. Got it.
Joan Kandel: Good. Well, I used to live in Arizona. I'm in New Mexico. Now, but I used to live up in northern Arizona.
Mr. Baca: Okay, yeah.
Joan Kandel: So that's why I have my Arizona license. So I have both in Arizona license and in New Mexico license.
Joan Kandel: So, I still have my Arizona license.
Mr. Baca: Must be nice right now with the whole Kobe dang convenient could just work for you.
Joan Kandel: Yes.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Yeah, it's true. It works. It works well.
Joan Kandel: So, um, welcome to bright heart health. Glad you're here.
Mr. Baca: Thank you.
Joan Kandel: Tell me, tell me a little bit about you and why you're here and what's what's going on.
Mr. Baca: Um, I was
Mr. Baca: Previously residing in Colorado.
Mr. Baca: And I was in Denver and I was a heroin addict. I have been a heroin addict for about eight years.
Mr. Baca: Okay. Um, I have been using it to manage my chronic back pain that I have from a car accident about 11 years ago.
Mr. Baca: Okay, and
Mr. Baca: I didn't really. I mean, at first, you know,
Mr. Baca: I would get high. But it was mainly to maintain and feeling. No pain.
Mr. Baca: And now I'm I've been using for so long that
Mr. Baca: I'm barely I lost my mom, a year ago. I'm barely grieving her death right now.
Joan Kandel: Because I'm so sorry.
Mr. Baca: I don't have anything in my system. So I'm actually dealing with a lot of emotion.
Mr. Baca: And and I'm having withdraw.
Mr. Baca: And which is horrible and
Mr. Baca: It's like when this whole co bit things started, I was just getting ready to go into a rehab and then they close down admissions to the rehabs
Mr. Baca: And because of the coven 19 so now I'm with my brother in Arizona, and I really, I mean, I've got like
Mr. Baca: A school that's. I'm going to start training free electrician. At the end of the year.
Joan Kandel: For you.
Mr. Baca: And I have a job with my uncle Jackie and he's got an apprenticeship and a job waiting. So I mean, I've got a great support system there. My entire family. And I still have friends that want to see me clean so
Mr. Baca: Um, you know, I want to do this. I've been crying.
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Good for you. Yeah, it sounds like you're you're in a good place to make a make a big change, and you have a support.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Wonderful.
Joan Kandel: And so, how long have you been in Arizona with your brother.
Mr. Baca: About human so much
Joan Kandel: Okay. Hey, and you moved there from Denver.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, okay.
Joan Kandel: Um, and were you housed in Denver or were you homeless.
Mr. Baca: Is timeless.
Joan Kandel: Huh, for for for Allah
Mr. Baca: And
Mr. Baca: I live there in Denver. A total of four and a half years I was clean.
Mr. Baca: Going to a Methadone clinics for two year and I. Okay, great. I had a good job.
Mr. Baca: And I had an apartment with my mom. But after she passed away. I kind of just threw everything out the window.
Yeah.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, it's been about two years that I've been homeless there.
Joan Kandel: Okay. All right. Um,
Joan Kandel: So you were homeless before your mom died.
Mr. Baca: Yes.
Joan Kandel: Okay cuz she died about a year ago, right.
Mr. Baca: Yeah yeah
Mr. Baca: Yeah, she got she got really sick prior and guide and several times over the course of six months.
Mr. Baca: And she kept like her heart wasn't
Mr. Baca: Strong enough to deal with the sickness. So he kept dying, but they kept reviving her
Mr. Baca: Ash and and she tried to prepare me as much as possible because he knew he was not going to make it.
Mr. Baca: Yeah. Um, but it was very difficult to do so.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, it's hard to really prepare for something like that.
Joan Kandel: Right, it's still, it's still a shocking to you.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, very
Joan Kandel: Yeah, I'm so sorry. Sounds like you're still really trying to process that.
Mr. Baca: I am yeah hey
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: D. Does it help to have your brother.
Mr. Baca: It does, and he is
Mr. Baca: He's in medical school and but he's also a Seventh Day Adventist preacher and Bible teacher so he's been taking me with him to go like
Mr. Baca: To his friend's house for Bible studies and, you know, so I'm trying to reconnect with my
Mr. Baca: Religion again and and get a good relationship with God and that way you know I can call on God for strength and all that good stuff. So I'm in a really positive place right now.
Joan Kandel: Good has religion been an important part of your life.
Mr. Baca: Not previously, you know,
Joan Kandel: Okay, so this is kind of new for you.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Uh huh. Yeah, trying to still wrap your head around it. Does it feel like a good fit, or is it, is it a lot of work.
Mr. Baca: And it's a lot of work, but it still feels like a good fit and
Mr. Baca: Okay. And I was in jail.
Mr. Baca: I feel I've been in jail a lot, but mainly for like possession and paraphernalia stuff like that. But this last time it was because of a stolen vehicle that charges ended up getting dropped
Mr. Baca: And
Mr. Baca: I was in jail for about 64 days total
Mr. Baca: And I would pray a lot because I was in solitary confinement, most of the time.
Mr. Baca: And just because Denver doesn't have like a separate gay male unit.
Mr. Baca: Haha, they have everybody together and
Mr. Baca: And and you know I all the horror stories in jail gay men getting killed. I'm like, Nope, not me.
Joan Kandel: So you you opt in for that or did they just say this is the best choice for you.
Mr. Baca: Know I opted I begged them um
Joan Kandel: I see now you just wanted to be safe and not get attack.
Joan Kandel: Right, yeah. So you did okay there.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, in terms of that. I mean,
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah, uh huh. Okay, um,
Joan Kandel: Alright.
Joan Kandel: So, so that's when you started to pray.
Mr. Baca: Yeah. And no, it would be like little things by and they were like subtle answers to the prayers that I was praying and which
Mr. Baca: Got kind of got me.
Mr. Baca: You know, believing again and then ever since I came here and I'm really like working to reconnect with and because when I was a kid.
Mr. Baca: My parents were dealers and alcoholics and then turn to religion. And so we were like for a short time, going to church and you know really involved and stuff so
Joan Kandel: So it's there somewhere.
Mr. Baca: Yeah there somewhere.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. So in terms of Seventh Day Adventist I don't know too much about it, but do you have a sense of how they will
Joan Kandel: View you being gay and you being on medication assisted treatment.
Joan Kandel: And he says about
Mr. Baca: Matt Yeah.
Mr. Baca: I'm just starting to I mean that few people I have met have been really awesome and like one of my brother friends who was also a student at the Bible college here and it's called souls west. I don't know if you've heard of it.
Mr. Baca: Haha. Okay. And it's like a little. It's like a outdoor camp, but it's a Bible college
Mr. Baca: Okay, and
Mr. Baca: He actually I really opened up to him and told him everything
Mr. Baca: And he accepted me with open arms. And he actually became a really good friend.
Joan Kandel: Oh, nice.
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Mr. Baca: That's a good sign.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, so that's a real deal.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, right. Not every but it's not a guarantee that everybody says open
Joan Kandel: Minded is a is
Mr. Baca: Right. And, you know,
Joan Kandel: There's some things about religion that that's just part of the the doctrine, you know that certain things are are bad and evil and wrong.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. So I just want you to be protected against that, because
Joan Kandel: There is nothing wrong. Obviously with being gay. And there's nothing wrong with being on medications to treat addiction and those tend to be two things that are really highly stigmatized. And so I just want you to protect yourself and you know don't believe it.
Mr. Baca: If they say if they start to come at you with that.
Mr. Baca: Oh yeah, well, and I you know I pulled his name is Moses. I told him, but
Mr. Baca: I'm the gay man I don't plan on being a straight man. So if that's going to be a problem. Then I understand.
Mr. Baca: Right. He was like, No, why would that be a problem. And I said, because I when I was a teenager and 16 years old, I was told by the elders of our church. We were attending out in California.
Mr. Baca: And that I was going to hell and I was going to burn for eternity, because I was gay. And I'm like, Okay, that's why I kind of away from awaken
Joan Kandel: Right. Right. Yeah, that makes sense. So that's the last thing you need right now, when you're trying to get stable and you're trying to
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Well, well, yeah.
Joan Kandel: And, you know,
Joan Kandel: Unfortunately, the same sort of
Joan Kandel: Theories
Joan Kandel: Are perpetuated around using medications to treat addiction, so you know those you happen to be into really highly stigmatized groups.
Joan Kandel: That's unfortunate.
Joan Kandel: So, you know, people don't
Joan Kandel: People don't necessarily know what they're talking about when they
Joan Kandel: When they spew that stuff. So just, you know, protect yourself against that, that I guess that's my point.
Joan Kandel: Thank you. Yeah, yeah.
Mr. Baca: I've been through a lot of hell in my life.
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Mr. Baca: I mean, I've been jumped all of my teeth were broken out by a gang, I'm happy. They smacked my head into the curb.
Mr. Baca: And. And that was for being a gay male. I've been jumped several times.
Mr. Baca: You know i i now because of just being homeless and everything I carry like a pocket knife everywhere because I'm like, if anyone ever even tries anything. My life is more important and I protect myself at all costs, but
Mr. Baca: I'm trying to get out of that you know that crazy mindset.
Mr. Baca: Right, that the drugs kind of help you know
Mr. Baca: So,
Mr. Baca: Yeah yeah
Mr. Baca: Really been patient
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Well, that's good. That's really good. But, you know, because you're close to Phoenix. There may be some
Joan Kandel: Some resources there, you know, some gay recovery groups or something where you can
Joan Kandel: You know, not feel WHERE YOU CAN FEEL COMFORTABLE AND AT HOME I mean even online stuff there may be
They have
Joan Kandel: I believe so.
Mr. Baca: Wow, I need to look into that. Thank you.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, well, you should. I mean, you should Google it. If I, if I
Joan Kandel: Think of something, then I'll pass it on to you, but I mean, you could probably google it.
Joan Kandel: You know, okay, just Google gay recovery and you know there may be something local that when things open back up. You could go actually in person. But in the meantime, you know, even if they're based in, you know, California or Washington or something you can attend online.
Mr. Baca: Yeah right now.
Mr. Baca: Just like the perfect time to
Joan Kandel: So you can connect with people who you can really relate to and and share your experiences with and get out of, you know, your church community, what you can get out of that, but also have
Joan Kandel: A different sort of support and you know you being in bright heart is going to be really helpful because you'll be able to get support of other people who are in recovery, whether they're gay or not, you know, and just
Joan Kandel: Be able to relate to the to those things. So it's really, if you're well positioned to to be a good source of support.
Mr. Baca: Right. Thank you.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, you're welcome. I'm so have you been on Suboxone before
Joan Kandel: I know you ride on and that was helpful.
Mr. Baca: Yes, and I had been both. I hate it. I hate that Suboxone
Mr. Baca: Oh yeah, it makes me throw up some time, but
Mr. Baca: It does help a lot at methadone doesn't taste any better, but it the way down.
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: True that.
Joan Kandel: It's just quicker.
Joan Kandel: It doesn't take so long to dissolve.
Right.
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Mr. Baca: So, you know, whatever way.
Mr. Baca: You know, whatever direction. I go, I know I'm gonna be able to do it so
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. Good. Great. So, how confident are you feeling about about things about your recovery, being able to do this.
Mr. Baca: With the medication and just because previously in a rehab. They told me, like if you're on Suboxone then if you get high. You're going to get sick.
Mr. Baca: If you're on methadone and you get high. You don't get high. You don't feel anything from the drugs because I'm you know on opiates and
Mr. Baca: That it's basically a waste of money. So I'm like, Well, what the hell is the point if I'm on medication. I'm not going to use
Mr. Baca: And that's so that's the mindset that I have that I'm either going to get really sick or I'm just blowing my money on nothing. And when I got a clear head. I love to. I'm really like frugal with money.
Mr. Baca: And no, I'm like, you know, there's more important stuff to buy
Joan Kandel: Yeah right, you got you got good things to buy
Joan Kandel: Yeah, so if you were to put it on a scale of one to 10 how confident you are that you can do this with the medications confident are you 15
Joan Kandel: Yeah 14 yeah
Joan Kandel: Yeah, okay. Okay, why not, why not just a 10
Joan Kandel: By 14
Mr. Baca: Because yesterday, the gentleman, he was the guy that was doing my intake. He's like, well, if you were over 10 and I was like, Yeah, it'd be like a 14
Mr. Baca: I'm like 140% confident
Joan Kandel: So you're feeling super good about this.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Good. Well, so am I. Yeah, I think it's good.
Joan Kandel: And, you know, there are there are rehabs and other places that are of the theory that
Joan Kandel: That
Joan Kandel: People should be on Suboxone for a short period of time and then taper off and then they're good to go. And frankly, that just doesn't work. It's not, it's not a solution. You just fall back into the same brain patterns because your brain is all messed up.
Joan Kandel: So it doesn't fix your brain to be on something for a short time and then get off of it. So the relapse rates are so high and the failure rates are so high.
Joan Kandel: That really, you know, maintenance therapy indefinite maintenance therapy is the way to go.
Joan Kandel: And if at some point in the future.
Joan Kandel: I'm talking at least a year or more certainly many people are on it for longer.
Joan Kandel: If, at some point, you feel like, okay, my life is
Joan Kandel: Awesome, everything's in place. I'm totally stable than to think about a slow taper down and possibly off is a possibility. But you know, that's certainly not. We don't go into this thinking you're going to get off of this stuff.
Joan Kandel: You know, like everybody says when you're going to get off of that stuff.
Joan Kandel: That's not the right way to think if
Joan Kandel: Ever medication, you know, I'm a doctor. I'm a family doctor I treat people for lots of things medical conditions and some medical conditions are chronic
Joan Kandel: Meaning they're long lasting and they just need to be on medications for the long term sometimes for the rest of their life.
Joan Kandel: And you know as doctors were fine with that. And if it's helping and it's doing a good job and there aren't a lot of side effects, then you know it's it's helping and we should keep you keep people on it. So that's my philosophy about Suboxone as well.
Joan Kandel: And methadone as well. But we don't we don't prescribe methadone, because we're not
Mr. Baca: Right, right.
Mr. Baca: So,
Joan Kandel: I just kind of wanted to let you know a little bit about my philosophy so that you don't feel like
Joan Kandel: Your pressure to taper off you know before you're ready.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, right. Thank you. I really appreciate that.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: Good. Um, okay. So, um,
Joan Kandel: When was the last time you had an opioid and what was it,
Mr. Baca: And it was almost two months ago and it was heroin.
Joan Kandel: You have been two months without any opioids.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, because I went to script hospital and they gave me a prescription for Suboxone. It was only supposed to be for a week that I dragged it out for 30 days.
Mr. Baca: When strip a day.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Mr. Baca: So I took it out as long as I could and I i mean it, it wasn't. I was uncomfortable, but I wasn't withdrawing and now two weeks or two and a half weeks out from my last Suboxone strip and now I'm like oh my god the anxiety, the muscle pain. I'm like, I can't do this.
Joan Kandel: Okay. And it's been two and a half weeks since you had your last Suboxone
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Okay, so, um,
Joan Kandel: Uh, how long were you in scripts.
Mr. Baca: And I literally with a with my first time going to script hospital and it was in San Diego.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, and I was there because I had a rehab that was going to take me but then they close their doors when they
Mr. Baca: Told her a big thing happen.
Mr. Baca: So then I ended up having to come back here.
Joan Kandel: So, um,
Joan Kandel: So, how long were you at scripts. Were you there for a long time, or just a couple of days.
Joan Kandel: Or the end even go
Mr. Baca: I went one
Joan Kandel: Okay, just for the ER one
Mr. Baca: Visit yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: I see, I see. Okay, so that wasn't that wasn't any kind of rehab.
Mr. Baca: And no, no, no.
Mr. Baca: I see.
Mr. Baca: I was just referred by because my cousin Elisa is also an addict and she was mandated through drug court to go through the Drug Court program to rehab. So he's really good friends.
Mr. Baca: With the lady that runs drug court.
Mr. Baca: And she got me.
Mr. Baca: Her name is Roxy. She's the one that sent me the scripts to a counselor there. And her name is Tanya. That's the one I filled out the provider information for
Mr. Baca: Because she is. Yeah, she's been following up with me like more. I mean, she has shown me that she cares more about me and my sobriety than anyone I've ever met.
Joan Kandel: Wow, that's amazing. And you just barely met her.
Mr. Baca: I met her for five minutes.
Joan Kandel: That's amazing.
Joan Kandel: So she's from scripts.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah, she's the one who got you.
Joan Kandel: Connected with a doctor who could prescribe the Suboxone
Mr. Baca: Right, yeah, he, he had one of the ER doctors do it and then
Mr. Baca: She's the one that referred me to write her. She sent me all of the like a huge brochure. He sent to my email about different rehabs and stuff that are residential I'm like oh my god i like i said i met her for five minutes and I didn't
Mr. Baca: Think I you know
Mr. Baca: But she's like, I, I have been in contact with Roxy about you. We've been trying on this and and so I thought I would just call you and give you all this information and see if he could do anything to
Mr. Baca: You know, and, and she goes, please. She gave me her cell phone number of he's like text me if you need help. If there's any can give. I want to know everything. I'm like,
Mr. Baca: That's amazing.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, so she really cares
Mr. Baca: Yeah, really care.
Joan Kandel: That's amazing. That's great.
Joan Kandel: Um, so she'll be she'll be happy to hear from you that you're like plugged into a program and that
Joan Kandel: Yeah, she's gonna be thrilled. That's
Joan Kandel: Just to make sure to tell her.
Mr. Baca: I will
Joan Kandel: Okay cuz that'll make her really happy.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, I very much well
Joan Kandel: Yeah, otherwise show worry about you.
Mr. Baca: Yeah and you know yesterday there was a
Mr. Baca: Problem with the admissions paperwork that they send to your email like things weren't downloading. I'm like, oh my god. Another speed bump. I'm done. I give up. I texted her. And I was like, look, thank you for everything, but this is
Joan Kandel: Why. Wow. Wow.
Mr. Baca: I don't know. Please, Mommy, I'm like okay
Joan Kandel: She talked to you down. Huh.
Mr. Baca: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: So that's good. Thank goodness. Wow. Well, good. So when you went to scripts. How many Suboxone did they give you
Mr. Baca: And it me at three strips a day for a week and then I was
Mr. Baca: Supposed to go back. If I was still in San Diego, but I'm because I left so I I drew it out. Like, I mean, I tried to draw it out as long as I could with yeah
Joan Kandel: Right, so it lasted. You like two months or
Mr. Baca: Ask
Mr. Baca: Me a month. Yeah. Um, I would say like a month in a week.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Okay, so, um, so I think that they probably prescribed you three strips a day because they knew that you were going to have to stretch it out because strips today is not usually the dose that's required. Most people kind of do okay on either one or two strips a day or one and a half.
Joan Kandel: Um, and that's probably why they prescribed that just because they were kind of looking out for you.
Joan Kandel: I give you a little bit extra
Joan Kandel: So, but when we start you on Suboxone I don't think we're going to have to go that high of a dose, I think.
Joan Kandel: What I would suggest is that we start you on one strip a day for until we see you again on
Mr. Baca: A week from today. And they say, how you do this week.
Joan Kandel: Because I know you'll be feeling at least better on one strip a day, then you're feeling right now.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, really. Oh.
Joan Kandel: My dog.
Joan Kandel: Her name's Macy Gray.
Mr. Baca: Oh, I love it. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: She just she just left. She's
Joan Kandel: Great she she helps me out.
Yeah.
Mr. Baca: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Um, so, uh, so I you know I think that that's a good starting place. If you find that after this week, you're still feeling withdrawals, or just not feeling normal than we can go up maybe to eight milligrams a day, but I think
Joan Kandel: I mean, just to 12 milligrams a day. But I think starting you at eight milligrams a day. It may be fine. And then
Joan Kandel: Yeah, because we're, we're going to try to figure out what your stable doses and not overshoot it
Joan Kandel: We don't want you to be more than you need.
Joan Kandel: But we want you to be feeling stable. We don't want you to feel you know withdrawals every day as it feels like it's wearing off.
Joan Kandel: Because ideally you should be able to take one strip or you take your dose in the morning.
Joan Kandel: And it lasts for a full 24 hours.
Joan Kandel: Before you start to feel sick.
Mr. Baca: Like the method of the Don't panic. Right.
Joan Kandel: Exactly what was your, what was your stable dose of methadone.
Mr. Baca: At 210 milligrams
Joan Kandel: Well, you are on a fairly high dose.
Mr. Baca: Yeah and that and that I would still feel like sweaty and
Mr. Baca: Then shaky, but I didn't want to go any higher because I
Joan Kandel: Yeah.
Mr. Baca: I didn't. I was trying not to take the medication to get high. I wasn't, you know, I was trying to get my body slowly used to being yeah me again without medication. So
Mr. Baca: Yeah and you know I was on a really high dose, but there were so many people that were up in like a 400. I'm like, No, no, no, no, that's too much for me.
Joan Kandel: And did you, how did you, how did you get down from that dose. Did you taper down
Mr. Baca: No, I
Mr. Baca: quit cold turkey.
Joan Kandel: Ouch.
Mr. Baca: Right back to the heroin and after I see
Joan Kandel: I see.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah. So that just through you.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Well, that makes sense.
Joan Kandel: Because it's a pretty hard. I mean, you don't want to kick methadone.
Joan Kandel: Yes, painful, painful. Yeah.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, I know, I got a little taste of that I was like oh god no.
Joan Kandel: Right, so you are kind of a setup to to go back to using
Joan Kandel: Yeah, because it's really hard to make it. Yeah. Um, well, we're we're through that phase. So that's good. You're in a much better place now to be starting
Mr. Baca: Yeah, get better.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, when you used to use heroin. How much were you using in a day.
Mr. Baca: It would vary because I was homeless and so it'd be like whatever I could panhandle however much I had
Mr. Baca: But it was usually in between one to two grams, unless I could get more
Okay.
Joan Kandel: And you would shoot that
Mr. Baca: Hey, yeah.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. Did you ever have any bad abscesses or skin infections.
Mr. Baca: One time when I first started because I used to be a nurse, so I I know how to prep my skin and, you know, make sure that the needles are clean and don't care i i never shared needles.
Mr. Baca: Haha, I've been very protective disease and, you know,
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Well, that is, it's impressive that and all that time you shooting you didn't have bad abscesses, so
Mr. Baca: Yeah, I know, I know how to take care of myself.
Mr. Baca: Why, yeah. When I was shooting up stuff so
Joan Kandel: Right.
Mr. Baca: I will prevent that kind of thing.
Joan Kandel: Right. And, um, how about HIV and hep C. You've been tested for those
Mr. Baca: Yeah, and I'm negative
Joan Kandel: For both good for you. Oh, that's great. Oh, that's good.
Joan Kandel: So as as part of this program will have you go do labs and we check that routinely
Mr. Baca: Check your
Joan Kandel: Liver and check those things. So did they tell you about going to the lab and getting those
Mr. Baca: Oh, no. No, they didn't. They didn't explain any of that to me.
Joan Kandel: Okay. So after we get off the call today. You might call back to the virtual clinic and talk to them about two things. Talk to them about your labs.
Joan Kandel: Where to go to get those because they'll put in the order for the labs and they'll look it up. Look up your address and figure out where the closest places.
Joan Kandel: Okay. Um, so find out about labs and then about ACE so ACE is a stands for adverse childhood experiences. So it's a it's a questionnaire that you fill out. It's a very simple questionnaire and we we like to understand a little bit about how someone's childhood was so
Joan Kandel: It's called ace. Yeah. Because, because it's it's been powerfully shown that people who go through traumatic experiences as a child have a much higher rate of addiction and heart disease and lots of like physical
Joan Kandel: Problems and so it helps us to kind of understand a person when we can understand their childhood and what they've been through.
Mr. Baca: Okay that's good to know.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah. So lab and ace.
Joan Kandel: Two three letter words.
Mr. Baca: Let me say okay
Joan Kandel: Thanks. So, so call them right after this and and
Joan Kandel: And then the other thing that they'll need to do. I guess this is a third thing to ask them about is, ask them to set you up with a with a therapy appointment, because we do individual therapy as well as group therapy.
Joan Kandel: At bright heart.
Joan Kandel: So they'll set you up with an individual therapist who is licensed in Arizona.
Joan Kandel: And then you'll be in the group with with me and another therapist, who's licensed in New Mexico because it's a new mexico group.
Joan Kandel: So it'll be a little bit disjointed because you're in Arizona. We're in New Mexico, but it won't. It'll be fairly seamless.
Joan Kandel: But the therapist that you see for individual therapy will need to be a therapist, who's licensed in Arizona. So they'll get you set up with that.
Joan Kandel: So three things.
Joan Kandel: What are the three things you'll call them for
Mr. Baca: Bad a and the therapist. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Perfect.
Joan Kandel: Okay. Um, so before I ask you some more medical questions I want to talk to you about the group. So the group is once a week.
Joan Kandel: And my group is on. I'm hoping that you can do this time it's on Wednesdays at 4pm New Mexico time which at this time of the year is 3pm your time.
Mr. Baca: Okay, yep.
Joan Kandel: Well that work.
Joan Kandel: Yep. Okay, good.
Joan Kandel: Cuz he's talked about school and work and stuff. So I'm hoping that yeah
Mr. Baca: Right now, right now, I literally I if they in the house all day.
Joan Kandel: Perfect. Okay, great.
Mr. Baca: So that'll fit in. I'm, it doesn't. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Good. Okay.
Joan Kandel: So it'll be Wednesdays at 4pm
Joan Kandel: Which is 3pm your time.
Joan Kandel: And that's going to start next week. So, not today.
Joan Kandel: But, but next week and it's going to be. I'm the doctor in that group and Jessica is the therapist in that group, you'll like her, she's great. And that's actually a new group that we're starting
Joan Kandel: So everyone who's going to be in that group is going to be just getting to know each other at the same time.
Joan Kandel: So that'll be kind of nice.
Joan Kandel: Yeah yeah
Mr. Baca: That'd be great. Thank you.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, of course. That'll be good. So what you'll do anytime you have any kind of appointment is you go to the virtual clinic about a half an hour beforehand.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, right.
Joan Kandel: You already did that.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Yeah, you did that, today, right. You went to today.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. So anytime you have either a therapy appointment or a group appointment or an individual appointment with me and I'm also available for individual appointment so if you
Joan Kandel: You know what we do in the group's
Joan Kandel: Is we do we take a portion of the group for a medical check in. So I asked people how they're doing on their dose if they need a refill.
Joan Kandel: How things are. And it's pretty quick. And it doesn't go very in depth because you're doing it in front of everybody and stuff like that. So, um, so we tend to have that be a pretty quick. Part of the, the group visit and then the rest of it is more therapy stuff that we all do together.
Joan Kandel: So if, if ever there's a time that you want to talk to me about something medical and you don't really care to talk about it and in the group, just let me know that and make an appointment with me individual so that we can talk without
Joan Kandel: people paying attention.
Mr. Baca: Okay and and which really you know i don't i'm very blind.
Mr. Baca: With what I yeah I don't
Mr. Baca: Yeah, I mean, really, I don't care who
Mr. Baca: Who has yeah I'm just over
Joan Kandel: Yeah well that's good that's, you know,
Joan Kandel: That's a good quality. The other thing though is if you do have some sort of issue that's going to take a
Mr. Baca: Lot.
Joan Kandel: More time
Joan Kandel: Right. We don't want to take the time of everybody in the group. So that would be another reason. Even if you didn't care if anybody paid attention.
Mr. Baca: Yeah yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: Just the time factor, there's that.
Joan Kandel: Okay Um okay so
Joan Kandel: Anything else I want to tell you about the program so yeah I there's a couple more things to tell you about the program before we
Joan Kandel: Before we do some more medical discussion. Um, so
Joan Kandel: To go along with the lab thing. So the first set of labs, you're going to have to go in person to the lab. They're going to draw your blood and they're going to collect some p for a drug screen.
Joan Kandel: After that we do about monthly we do drug screens, but they're going to be at at home. You don't have to go to a lab to do them so bright heart health will send you in the mail a kind of a bulky envelope that has a cup in it.
Joan Kandel: So when you get that don't open it.
Joan Kandel: will actually give you like they'll, they'll like text you with when it's going to arrive, like a tracking number and stuff so you'll know when it's going to be there. Don't open it.
Joan Kandel: When you get it just call the virtual clinic and say, Hey, I got this envelope. What am I supposed to do.
Joan Kandel: And then they'll, they'll watch you open it.
Joan Kandel: They'll talk you through it. They'll have you go to the bathroom, bring it back and then show it on the camera.
Joan Kandel: Okay, we're not going to watch up
Okay.
Joan Kandel: But they will they will
Joan Kandel: They'll talk you through it. So, so that's what to do with that.
Mr. Baca: And then that
Mr. Baca: Camera thing is that going to be every time that
Mr. Baca: I get that on below. They want to see it.
Joan Kandel: Yes, correct.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Mr. Baca: That'll be the routine. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Yes.
Joan Kandel: So every time you get it. Don't open it just call them.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: And then
Joan Kandel: So the prescriptions that we do that's going to be. I'm going to send them on the computer.
Joan Kandel: So when like when we're done with this call when you're calling into virtual clinic. I'll be typing in your, your prescription
Joan Kandel: Okay. So we already talked about the prescription. It's going to be the strips. I'm going to prescribe one a day. So I'm going to give you eight of them. So it'll be a prescription for eight
Mr. Baca: Thank you.
Joan Kandel: Because it'll be for today. And then also for
Mr. Baca: You'll have enough for today. Nick on
Mr. Baca: Wednesday. Right.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. For the next week, so that Wednesday when we meet in group, you will have already had your dose for the day.
Okay.
Joan Kandel: So, so the other thing that I prescribed besides Suboxone is I prescribe seminar can for you to have the nasal Narcan
Mr. Baca: Just to high already have the one
Joan Kandel: I'm going to prescribe more for you so that you have to
Mr. Baca: Okay.
Joan Kandel: So because you should really you should always carry that with you. Whenever you go anywhere. I mean, you're not going anywhere right now because you're home all the time, but
Joan Kandel: It's just a really good thing to carry around with you I carry one in my purse everywhere because you never know if you're going to find somebody who who looks really
Joan Kandel: zonked out and you try to make them up, then you can't wake them up and right squirted up their nose and save them. So it's good to have. So I'm going to grab another one for you.
Mr. Baca: Okay, thank you.
Joan Kandel: And there will be refills. So if you end up having to use it, then you can go back to the same pharmacy and get
Mr. Baca: Another one. Awesome. Thank you.
Joan Kandel: Yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: And so another thing about the groups is that there's
Joan Kandel: Is that we need you to have your headphones on. So that's great.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, just for
Joan Kandel: Confidentiality if there's anybody else in the in the house.
Joan Kandel: Right. And if
Joan Kandel: People know that they can be
Joan Kandel: candid and other people won't be hearing them.
Joan Kandel: Right, uh,
And
Joan Kandel: And there's no smoking in the groups. Are you a smoker.
Mr. Baca: I am
Joan Kandel: So there's no smoking in the group's
Mr. Baca: Yeah. And you know, that's great. I that's totally doable. So
Joan Kandel: Yeah. So tell me about you and smoking. Let's talk about smoking.
Mr. Baca: And I used to be up to about two and a half packs a day until I went to jail.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Mr. Baca: And then, um, now I've been kind of weaning myself into only being like half a pack a day.
Mr. Baca: So I've gotten it down quite a bit, but
Joan Kandel: Yes, I
Mr. Baca: Was I was afraid to completely quit smoking right now because of the whole you know trying to stay clean and everything I
Mr. Baca: A rehab taught me. You know, they don't believe in stopping everything all at once because it sets you up to fail.
Mr. Baca: Uh huh. And I get really I try to control it as much as possible, but without nicotine. I mean, I get really mean.
Mr. Baca: Yeah.
Mr. Baca: And I don't like that.
Joan Kandel: I don't like. Right, right, right. So, at half a pack a day. Do you feel like that level of nicotine is
Mr. Baca: Can offer you a sometimes is more sometimes
Mr. Baca: You know, just depends on how I'm feeling. And if I'm, if I get too much into withdrawal than smoking actually makes me sick.
Mr. Baca: It makes me really nauseous and I can't stand the smell a bit so
Mr. Baca: Uh huh. And I then I stopped smoking, but then my body like where's
Mr. Baca: My digital yeah yeah yeah
Joan Kandel: It's, it's an addiction. It's a bad addiction and it really is. It's a tough one to quit.
Joan Kandel: So I commend you for getting from two and a half packs a day to half a pack a day. That's great.
Mr. Baca: Yeah.
Joan Kandel: It really is.
Joan Kandel: I would, I would like to revisit this when you're feeling stable.
Joan Kandel: And really help you to
Joan Kandel: To quit completely
Joan Kandel: That is that, yeah.
Joan Kandel: Is that a goal of yours.
Absolutely.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: And be okay you know
I mean,
Mr. Baca: Most people nowadays, you know, I'm thinking of like off in the future. I mean, I would like to have a husband someday and and I don't want to have that cigarette, you know, addiction smell I you know I try not to. I can't smoke in the house. Here I have to go outside, but
Mr. Baca: Like in in Colorado, I would try not to smoke in my house because it always smelled so strong. When I would, you know, walk through the door, and I'm like, oh god, I can't
Joan Kandel: Yeah yeah
Mr. Baca: Right.
Joan Kandel: It's a love hate relationship.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, right. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Right. Yeah. Well, let's, uh, you know, not now, but in the in the near future, let's let's tackle that
Joan Kandel: Okay, because
Joan Kandel: It would be nice to have Mr. Buck of a nonsmoker
Mr. Baca: Yes, it would. And when it my lungs would very much appreciate it.
Joan Kandel: Very much.
Joan Kandel: Very much. And so did your wallet.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, I know. It's getting expensive. It's
Joan Kandel: Really, it's really expensive. So yes, that's something that we can work on
Joan Kandel: The other thing that I want to talk to you about that we
Joan Kandel: Can we can work on is, is your chronic pain. So tell me about your chronic pain.
Mr. Baca: And I started okay so
Mr. Baca: 1112 years ago I lost my son, he died.
Mr. Baca: Oh, he was on who he was. Thank you. And he was only two weeks old, and he died from fiddes
Mr. Baca: This was just a random like a friend of mine knew how much I wanted to be a father and she. I mean, we
Mr. Baca: Got her pregnant and she got pregnant on the first try.
Mr. Baca: Wow, I was so excited. And his name was Benton di n to n and
Mr. Baca: He was the light of my life, and he died. I was like, I blame. I mean, I blame myself, to this day, I still blame myself because I feel like I did something wrong when I put him to bed and and i know you know I've got the medical knowledge. I know, since it happened.
Mr. Baca: There's really no reason
Mr. Baca: No line with yeah but it's hard not to blame myself.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, and
Mr. Baca: Losing him was really hard.
Joan Kandel: Really hard. Yeah.
And
Mr. Baca: After I lost him. I started drinking really bad and
Mr. Baca: I don't remember. Six months after that and because I was a drunk. So Matt and
Mr. Baca: And so I was born with scoliosis of my back. And then when I started drinking really heavily I had three different car accidents and the last one should have killed me.
Mr. Baca: I was in a small car and I went under the tires of a diesel truck a diesel truck literally crushed my car into it so they can
Mr. Baca: Oh my gosh, yeah. And so the fact that I survived that car accident is amazing.
Yeah.
Mr. Baca: But now my back is so
Mr. Baca: Screwed up and they want like I've got a bone to marry it's benign, but it
Mr. Baca: Went on
Mr. Baca: On one of my vertebrae and they want to remove it and put in mesh and screws and rods, and I'm like, no.
Mr. Baca: My mom had back surgery. My dad has had four back surgeries and they have messed them. I mean, they messed them up.
Mr. Baca: Oh, and so I'm like, No, I'm not doing that I'm I will do it when I have to
Mr. Baca: Write if it grows and I start, you know, not getting to the point where I can't walk and all that, then fine.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, and killed in know
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Well, I totally I totally get that. Um, one thing that I want to
Joan Kandel: Talk to you about is that we have in bright heart. We have a pain specialist. Her name is Dr. Jackson.
Joan Kandel: She's WONDERFUL. AND SHE DOESN'T prescribe meds. She doesn't do surgery but she helps people to cope with their chronic pain and
Joan Kandel: Realizing that it's
Joan Kandel: That it's there and how to make the best of it and we can't make it go away. But we can treat it in terms of helping you deal with it and minimize the amount of pain that you're having
Joan Kandel: Through a more natural thing.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Yeah, right. So one of the things we can do is get you set up with her.
Joan Kandel: For an individual appointment so she can talk to you about the kind of pain that you're having and how you're dealing with it and talk to you about, you know, nutritional things. We also have a nutritionist and to kind of get you to be able to
Joan Kandel: To live with that pain for as long as possible without having to have surgery.
Joan Kandel: Right, that's what are your goals and priorities around your chronic pain.
Mr. Baca: I'm honestly. Sometimes it's so unbearable. But right now I'm like I've been every time I start to get that pain and the
Mr. Baca: Pain that shoots down my legs and I go and I take a hot bath or a hot shower with mentally did bath salts and I read myself down with menthol cream and ointment every day.
Mr. Baca: And so I mean I'm managing right now. It's not as bad as it gets.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, but, um, I know I'll never be without pain. I know that is just better management.
Mr. Baca: You know, some right now is is going to be like I can do. I mean, I'm not sure. Because right now like Seventh Day Adventist are Vegan Vegetarian so I'm on a really healthy diet.
Haha
Mr. Baca: My brother has had me slowly start to work out and stuff.
Mr. Baca: Uh huh. So, you know, I'm trying to do things to manage by myself, but it would be
Joan Kandel: Now,
Mr. Baca: You know, if there were like vitamins. I could add in or
Joan Kandel: Somehow
Mr. Baca: To make my body be less aggressive against my, you know, again,
Joan Kandel: Yeah, yeah. So it sounds to me like your goal is to is to kind of maximize the management.
Joan Kandel: And trying to cope with it. Well, that sounds, that sounds very doable. Dr. Jackson also has groups of
Joan Kandel: Everybody who's has chronic pain so they can really help each other out with ideas and like, well this works for me. And, you know, this was my experience. And so it kind of is like a peer support for for folks who are all suffering with that kind of
Joan Kandel: Issue.
Joan Kandel: So that would be another idea so so
Joan Kandel: Do you want, do you want me to ask them to schedule that for you.
Joan Kandel: Where you want to wait.
Mr. Baca: You okay can I mean, I mean, if you want, we can wait till next week and then I can talk to you about it again, but
Mr. Baca: Either way, that would be fine.
Joan Kandel: It'll probably be a couple of weeks to get in with her anyway so
Mr. Baca: Okay.
Joan Kandel: I'll just, I'll just plant the seed and we can
Joan Kandel: Try to make that happen at some point in the not too distant future.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, that'd be great.
Joan Kandel: Okay, good. We'll do that. Okay.
Joan Kandel: So let me ask you some questions. So, um,
Joan Kandel: Besides the things that we've already talked about and what kind of medical problems do you have
Mr. Baca: And well, I have had
Mr. Baca: umbilical hernia surgery. When I was a kid.
Mr. Baca: Okay. And I've had gastric bypass and I had to ruin why procedure.
Mr. Baca: Okay, I used to be 402 pounds.
Mr. Baca: And you really yeah so I've managed my weight pretty well.
Mr. Baca: Whoa, and I've kept it off for about a decade so far.
Mr. Baca: My goodness. Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Well, that's amazing. Good for you.
Yeah.
Mr. Baca: Other than that, I'm crying pain. I mean,
Mr. Baca: I'm
Joan Kandel: Is your pain in your back or do you have pain, other places.
Mr. Baca: My back and my hips.
Joan Kandel: Hips okay
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Mr. Baca: Um, other than that, it's just been like the drug youth and alcoholism and you know the up and down with that. So,
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: And, um,
Joan Kandel: Do you take any medications.
Mr. Baca: And I take um die Oban for blood pressure and it's low dose, I think, like, five milligrams or something. I mean,
Joan Kandel: What's the other name for die of and I don't know that trade name.
Mr. Baca: Oh, I don't know off the top of my head.
Joan Kandel: Okay, okay.
Mr. Baca: I'm sorry.
Joan Kandel: Oh, that's okay.
Um,
Mr. Baca: They had me when I was in jail, they had me on Abilify
Mr. Baca: Okay, but I didn't. I haven't continued it afterward. Okay.
Mr. Baca: Yeah.
Mr. Baca: Besides, like over the counter Tylenol. OK.
Mr. Baca: OK. OK.
Joan Kandel: OK, so nothing else just the dive and
Joan Kandel: I'll look that up. I'll see what the, what the trade name is
Joan Kandel: I mean the generic
Joan Kandel: Are you allergic.
Mr. Baca: Like is it
Joan Kandel: Oh, okay. It's probably hydrocortisone
Mr. Baca: At
Joan Kandel: Most like maybe that's what it is.
Joan Kandel: Okay, or maybe. Yeah.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, it's in that family.
Joan Kandel: Okay, got it.
Joan Kandel: That's, that's perfect. And you're just on five milligrams of that.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Do you happen to know what your blood pressure was last time it was just
Mr. Baca: I don't remember. I know it was within normal range. It was like when 30 something. I don't remember the exact number, but it was going to win 30th and the at
OK.
Joan Kandel: OK, that's perfect. That's fine. And how tall are you, and how much do you weigh
Mr. Baca: And I am five, six and 155
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: Do you have any allergies to anything.
Mr. Baca: And now a pro.
Joan Kandel: Okay, what happened.
Mr. Baca: And they I had like an anxiety attack at work. And this was when I was working as a nurse and so they gave me analysis krill
Mr. Baca: To because I guess it has like a an off good use for calming
Mr. Baca: Okay, and then I broke out in hives and I had trouble breathing. And so then they had to give me an IV with fluid and
Mr. Baca: Why you mad drawl and Benadryl. I was like, man, what is
Joan Kandel: It just sit in the corner and take some deep breaths.
Joan Kandel: If you have anxiety. Okay.
Joan Kandel: Great, um,
Joan Kandel: And what
Joan Kandel: Is your, is your father alive. Do you have a relationship with your father.
Mr. Baca: He is alive, he still lives in Colorado.
Mr. Baca: Okay. Um, and I do our relationship. It has been strained, but it's getting better.
Joan Kandel: Oh, good. Oh, that's nice. Um, I see healthy
Mr. Baca: I he is the site has back surgery.
Mr. Baca: Okay, yeah, he got rear ended.
Mr. Baca: About nine years ago and has had for back surgery fence. Jeff, making him work.
Joan Kandel: Which is why you want to avoid it back surgery.
Mr. Baca: Right.
Joan Kandel: Hey, yeah. Yeah. And do you don't currently drink, he said.
Mr. Baca: No, I haven't had alcohol in like 10 years
Joan Kandel: Good for you. Okay.
Joan Kandel: And
Joan Kandel: Do you in terms of safety. Do you wear your seatbelt all the time when you're in the car.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, good.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, and you use condoms.
Mr. Baca: Oh yeah hands with why I am the V3 today.
Joan Kandel: Nice, nice.
Joan Kandel: Do you have a partner or partners.
Mr. Baca: No. Not at the moment.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. That's it. That's a goal.
Joan Kandel: Yeah yeah
Mr. Baca: That's a future goal.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Good. Well, that's good.
Mr. Baca: Right now I'm I told my brother. I'm like what I'm being I had I pulled my brother. When I first came here, I was like, I'm going to be open and honest with you about everything that I'm feeling and thinking
Mr. Baca: Because I want our relationship to always be good. I mean, my I he's supported me
Mr. Baca: Through even all the years of my use and I mean
Mr. Baca: You know,
Mr. Baca: He has. He's been there.
Mr. Baca: When I've needed him every time, even in detail. And so yeah, so you know I told him.
Mr. Baca: Eventually, in the future, you know, I've got people that are asking me out on a date right now. I'm like, What the hell you talking about, like, I think of myself as being old and like out of the loop and you know all that
Mr. Baca: And I'm like, man, I'm not. No, I'm not in a place right now where I can do.
Mr. Baca: You know, I'm really trying to focus on me because I could I could easily get lost in somebody
Joan Kandel: Right.
Joan Kandel: You have a tendency to do that.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, and so I know I know myself too well.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, right. Well, good for you. You're looking out for yourself but
Joan Kandel: You know, in time.
Mr. Baca: Yeah, that's
Mr. Baca: Okay, yeah, yeah.
Joan Kandel: Good. Um,
Joan Kandel: Well, I forgot what I was going to ask you about that.
Joan Kandel: Remember, um,
Joan Kandel: So,
Joan Kandel: Are you having any
Joan Kandel: Any physical concerns or problems, besides the the withdrawal stuff that you talked about a little bit
Mr. Baca: No, get a gastric bypass I get like malnutrition.
Mr. Baca: Aha, so like I take iron because
Mr. Baca: I did. I'm really anemic like so they were three years ago, gave me a blood transfusion, because I was so any make
Joan Kandel: Okay, you
Joan Kandel: Have to watch your
Your dad.
Joan Kandel: The other thing we have with bright heart is we have a nutritionist. So if you're interested in a consult with a nutritionist, you can ask at virtual clinic. You can let them know
Mr. Baca: That you
Joan Kandel: That you want some help with that, to try to
Joan Kandel: Okay, so that's something to think about.
Mr. Baca: Okay, thank you.
Joan Kandel: Especially if you're vegetarian, vegan, you know, there are things that you need to really
Mr. Baca: Watch out for
Joan Kandel: I'm not sure if that's gonna happen if God or god yeah okay
Joan Kandel: I get it. Yeah.
Mr. Baca: I, I feel like nice day in my, you know,
Mr. Baca: Yeah, and where the and all that.
Joan Kandel: Yeah, well, and it's a good source of protein and iron. So, yeah.
Yeah.
Joan Kandel: Okay, and
Joan Kandel: How about depression.
Mr. Baca: And it's not as bad when I'm not on the drug and a lot more manageable.
Mr. Baca: Welcome to drugs.
Mr. Baca: I am I always tell everyone like my head is in a really dark place. You know, just don't talk positive to me. I don't want to hear it.
Mr. Baca: But when I am out from the drugs like my head is clear. I actually feel happy. And it's just dealing with the withdrawal right now.
Mr. Baca: I don't have energy. And when I first got here. I clean my brother's house from top to bottom. He's like Gary this place. It's never been so spotless. Oh my god, I'm like,
Mr. Baca: I even got down on my hands and knees and scrub all the carpets and
Joan Kandel: Haha, yeah. Right. Um, and a half about suicidal thoughts.
Mr. Baca: No, no, no, no. When I was in high school I was diagnosed with manic depression and which I'm more manic than in my low
Mr. Baca: Uh huh. Um,
Mr. Baca: But I did try to attempt in high school.
Mr. Baca: I was I was 400 pounds in high school I was a gay man I had so much going against me and the depression horrible and I once I got out and went to college and, you know, people were not judging me as a near here but kids are like,
Mr. Baca: Yeah, you know, it's a lot better. A lot more manageable.
Joan Kandel: Uh huh. So nothing nothing recently in terms of suicidality, yeah. Good.
Joan Kandel: Good. Um, okay. So, um, do you have any just in terms of a physical exam. There's not much that we can do. Do you have any track marks where you shut up. Can I look at is this where you shoot up in your
Mr. Baca: Know,
Actually oh
Mr. Baca: I always shoot up in my neck.
Mr. Baca: Oh it, go read
Mr. Baca: In my head. Wow. Yeah. And
Joan Kandel: Using your nursing skills.
Mr. Baca: Yeah. So as you can see my neck is
Mr. Baca: Is pretty good.
Joan Kandel: That's pretty good. I'm not seeing any
Mr. Baca: ANY MARKS OF ANY star.
Joan Kandel: Or anything. Okay.
Mr. Baca: And very careful.
Joan Kandel: Okay, and you never really used your empty cubicle
Mr. Baca: No, I don't. Okay, I don't have veins everything
Mr. Baca: All the weight. Like, I can't find the beans with my I
Joan Kandel: See, I see.
Mr. Baca: Oh, that's
Mr. Baca: The reason I would use my neck.
Mr. Baca: Okay. And like the veins in my legs are all varicose veins.
Joan Kandel: I see.
Joan Kandel: So those didn't work.
Mr. Baca: You have awoken work.
Joan Kandel: Yeah. Okay. All right. Well, I think we've covered an awful lot. Will I look forward to getting to know you more in the groups and
Joan Kandel: So I will see you on Wednesday.
Joan Kandel: Four o'clock.
Joan Kandel: My time at three o'clock.
Joan Kandel: 3pm. Yes. So show up to virtual clinic at about 230
Joan Kandel: Every time
Joan Kandel: Before group, they'll have you fill out a brief addiction monitor, which is just kind of a self questionnaire about how you've been doing in the past week. And so that's just a routine thing and that's why we asked you to call that much ahead of time.
Joan Kandel: To check in.
Joan Kandel: So I'm going to put your prescription to the pharmacy that you told us to send it to
Joan Kandel: Yeah, and
Mr. Baca: I will all
Mr. Baca: Right, yes and virtual clinic and lab. A and therapy.
Joan Kandel: Awesome. Um, that's perfect.
That's great.
Joan Kandel: Okay, well,
Mr. Baca: This is when I checked in for group that is it gonna be like a new ID number every
Joan Kandel: Yes, it is.
Joan Kandel: A good question.
Joan Kandel: It's a new ID number every time it always changes so you don't have to remember them, the only number. You have to remember is the virtual clinic number
Joan Kandel: 408 number. Yeah.
Mr. Baca: Okay, got it.
Joan Kandel: And so put that in your phone or put that tattoo it on your
Mr. Baca: Somebody because that's the one you're going to call, they're the ones that are going to help you with any questions that you have.
Joan Kandel: If you need to
Joan Kandel: Get a message to me, you can call them. If you need help with the with
Joan Kandel: Your meds or any appointments
Joan Kandel: Or if you have a cancel an appointment, then
Mr. Baca: That's the place to call and you will be my doctor
Joan Kandel: I'm a doctor.
Mr. Baca: Okay, awesome. I love
Joan Kandel: That okay I love you too.
Joan Kandel: All right. Alright, so, um, I will see you on Wednesday.
Mr. Baca: All right. Thank you very much.
Joan Kandel: And and make sure to let Tanya know that you're in good hands.
Mr. Baca: I'm going to text her right now.
Joan Kandel: Because she's gonna want it. She's wondering
Mr. Baca: Yes, I know.
Joan Kandel: Okay.
Joan Kandel: All right, Gary.
Joan Kandel: Good to see you, and I'll see you on Wednesday.
Mr. Baca: All right. Thank you, Dr.
Joan Kandel: Have a good day. You too.
Mr. Baca: Bye Bye bye.